=================================================================

                           P . T . L .

    P I N I O N S   T E K N I S K A   L A B O R A T O R I U M

                (The Pinion Technical Laboratory)

                      http://www.pinion.se


                            Advisory

=================================================================


Vulnerability Name
- - ------------------
HP LaserJet Network Username and Information Enumeration


Pinion ID
- - ---------
PTL_advisory_050825


Author
- - ------
George Hedfors


Class
- - -----
Configuration Error


Remote
- - ------
Yes


Local
- - -----
N/A


Discovered
- - ----------
August 25 2005


Published
- - ---------
September 15 2005


Updated
- - -------
N/A


Credit
- - ------
This vulnerability was found by George Hedfors.


Vulnerable
- - ----------
HP LaserJet 2430

Possibly other HP printers that operate using the Jetdirect
controls.


Discussion
- - ----------
HP LaserJet printers has an extensive administrative user interface
provided over SNMP. SNMP is normally used for monitoring applications
and servers performance but can also be used to perform remote
configurations.

Pinion has discovered that HP LaserJet printers store information
regarding recently printed documents. Information such as document
name, title, number of pages, document size, user who has printed the
document and the machine name where the print job was initiated.

This document information "cache" is flushed when the document is
older then one hour but in mean time, the information can be obtained
by anyone with access to the network and who has information
regarding the "public" SNMP community configured at the printer.

In reality, an intruder could use this information to obtain possible
usernames that later could be used in a login brute force attack
against servers.

Hewlet Packard was informed about this issue on September 7, 2005.

Vendor response: "This information is kept by the printer in the
printer specific MIB. Jetdirect controls the authentication and
subsequent authorization to all the MIBs. This authentication/
authorization can be controlled via SNMP settings."

HP tracking number: SSRT051032


Solution
- - --------
There is no direct way to prevent the printer from exposing
information about recently printed documents except for disabling
SNMP.

Access to administrative features of the LaserJet, including SNMP,
can be controlled and limited in various ways depending on the
security requirements of the customer's environment. For more
information please refer to "HP Jetdirect Embedded Print Server
Administrator's Guide", chapter 7 - Security Features.


References
- - ----------
"HP Jetdirect Embedded Print Server Administrator's Guide"

http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/DocumentIndex.jsp?
locale=en_US&contentType=SupportManual&docIndexId=3124&
prodTypeId=18972&prodSeriesId=416419&lang=en&cc=us

Additional information regarding HP Jetdirect security is available
here:

http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?
objectID=bpj05999

http://h20000.www2.hp.com/bizsupport/TechSupport/Document.jsp?
objectID=c00004828


Exploit
- - -------
The tool attached provides a possibility to extract the described
information.
